Oh
you
hi Tom shawl here we're in Allen
Cooper's basement and this is a great
example of a duel tank system so what
that means is there's two tanks you've
got your solar tank here
and that feeds into the existing tank
you can see that this existing tank has
a gas back up and this solar tank
actually has an electrical heating
component but this is not tied in right
now this is not active so this tank is
acting as a solar tank only and this
tank is your gas backup heater so you're
never going to be without hot water so
what happens is you have your water
getting heated in this tank and when
this system is working together the
water comes out of the hot line here and
actually feeds into the cold line on
this tank and so if the water is already
up to temperature then the gas burner
doesn't turn on if the water is not up
to temperature and whatever that's
thermostat is set at it'll heat the
water up to that amount so instead of
heating your ground water from say sixty
degrees to 120 degrees let's say it's in
the winter in this water is coming
through it like 90 degrees you're only
heating from 90 to 120 as opposed to 60
to 120 so even if you're not getting
your water all the way up to temperature
with the solar you're still getting a
net benefit and the gas you're using is
less Allen has you can see these ball
valves up here there's quite a few of
them throughout the system what this
does is it allows Allen to isolate
either the solar tank or the existing
tank the conventional take or use two
systems together he told us that just a
few days ago he completely bypassed this
system altogether so he closed off some
of the ball valves running into this
tank so the water is just coming out of
the solar tank and up into his house so
he's just on solar now he turned the
pilot off of his take here and he's
working just with solar energy
now just to talk for a minute about how
this tank works you've got a pipe run
coming right here and I can actually
take the cover off of this control box
so we can look at the guts of it
beautiful isn't it
we've got our return line here our
supply line here and our pressure gage
over here so what's happening is you
have a propylene glycol this pinkish
fluid right here circulating up by this
via this pump up to the panel on the
roof running through the collector
collecting all of that thermal energy
and then running back down through this
line into the heat exchanger that's in
the tank so you can see it comes in at
the top right here it's at about the
middle of the tank and it has coils that
are wrapped around the tank that are
transferring all of that heat that's
gathered in the panel and then it comes
back up here and goes back up to the
collector so this is a pretty standard
configuration for a closed-loop
pressurized glycol system if you had a
system that was called an open-loop
system you just have water potable water
traveling up to the collector collecting
the thermal energy and running back into
the tank but that's not the case for
this system one other thing I'd like to
mention is this guy right here this is
what's called an expansion tank now
anything that gains heat gains volume
right so that volume that is gained as
this propylene glycol gets up to let's
see right now it's at about 140 degrees
it's gaining heat it's gaining volume it
need somewhere to go so it fills up this
expansion tank so that the system itself
doesn't gain too much pressure so that's
why we need an expansion tank for this
type of system
you